In this lecture, we are going to register a new format type.
We're going to need a few functions and components before registering the format type.
Let's import them into our file.
Inside your editor, open the neon format dot js file.
At the top of the file import a function called register format type from the WordPress slash rich text
package.
Next import a component called rich text toolbar button from the WordPress slash block editor package.
Lastly import the double underscore functions from the I 18 and package.
After importing these functions, we can begin adding a button to the toolbar below these imports.
Call the register format type function.
This function will allow us to add a new format type to the toolbar.
It'll help us toggle the visibility of the button along with handling events.
There are two arguments.
The first argument is the name of our format type.
Let's set the name to YouTube plus slash neon.
Next, we can add an object for further configuration.
Inside this object, we can add a property called title for adding a readable name.
Let's set this property to the following translatable text Neon.
After adding the title, add a property called Tag Name WordPress will surround the text with a pair
of these.
These tags can have a class for applying any effect on the selection.
We can configure the type of tags that will surround the element.
Let's set the tag to span.
Lastly, add a function called edit.
The edit function will be responsible for rendering the button in the toolbar inside the function.
Return the rich text toolbar button components.
As the name suggests, this component will add a button to the toolbar for blocks with the rich text
component.
This applies to all instances of the rich text component.
WordPress will handle positioning this button at the right location on this component.
Add a property called title with the following translatable text neon.
The translatable text will appear as the text in the toolbar afterward.
At a property called Icon, we must provide an icon.
The icon will appear with the translatable text.
WordPress has an icon called Super Hero.
I think it fits with our format option.
Let's set this property to super hero.
Up next, we must toggle the components active state.
If the format is applied to the current selection, the button should be highlighted.
We can add a property called is active to change the buttons active state.
However, we do not have the information for toggling this property.
Luckily the edit function is Fed properties related to the current block.
Let's structure the argument list for a property called is active.
Next set this property to the is active property.
WordPress will update our component with the latest state of the selection.
We can use this property for toggling the buttons appearance.
There's one less property we will add to the component called on click.
The on click event is emitted when the user clicks on our button.
Let's pass in a function for handling this event.
Inside this function, we will apply the format to the selection before doing so.
It's possible that the click may not be applicable to our selection.
WordPress recommends using two events to verify that the format should be applied to our selection inside
the edit function's argument list.
These structure the props object for a function called on change.
The on change function will emit an event when the selection should change based on the click back in
the on click function.
Call the on change function for listening to this event.
Inside this event, we can begin toggling the format.
WordPress has a helper function for performing this action.
We do not need to search for the selection from the current block.
WordPress will be able to do that for us at the top of the file.
Import the toggle format function from the rich text package.
This function will handle toggling the format by adding in or removing the element from the selection
back in the on change function.
Call the toggle format function.
This function has two arguments.
The first argument is the current selection.
The selection is provided as a value in the props object and the argument list for the edit function.
The structure of property called value.
Next pass this property into the toggle format function.
Lastly, we must specify the type of format to apply pass in an object with a property called type.
The type property must be the name of the format.
This would be the value passed as the first argument to the register format type function.
The name of our format is called Udemy Plus Slash Neon.
We're almost finished.
The edit function is ready.
However, we should queue the CSV file on the front end.
Otherwise the neon effect will only apply to the Gutenberg editor inside the includes slash front folder.
Open the end queue php file.
At the bottom of the function, run the WP NQ style function.
The name of our stylesheet was called Up Editor.
Great.
We're ready to test our formats in the browser.
Refresh the Gutenberg Editor.
Try typing in random text into the editor.
You do not need to use a special block behind the scenes.
The paragraph block uses the rich text component by default.
This is the block selected by WordPress.
After typing random text, select a portion of the text.
In the toolbar we are presented with a set of formatting options.
You may not see your format unless you press the dropdown button.
As you can see, our format appears in the toolbar.
We can click on this button to apply the effect.
It may not be easy to see, but a blurry background has been applied to the selection.
We can toggle the selection easily by pressing the neon button again.
We've successfully applied the format to our text in an upcoming lecture.
We are going to improve this solution by limiting this format to a specific block.